Mathcamp has been the best experience of my life.  The math that I
learn here is wonderful.  I have yet to find a better environment in
which to learn math.  There is always interesting math to learn,
whether it comes in the form of fun classes, challenging problem sets,
or interesting discussions with campers and staff.  The mathematical
environment was the reason I applied to Mathcamp two years ago, and
the environment I found is the best I could have imagined.

The math, I think, is the reason Mathcamp exists, but it is not what
makes Mathcamp all that it is.  When I first came to Mathcamp, I
discovered something I could not have imagined, and still cannot
adequately describe.  I came to Mathcamp looking for math, for
learning, for an experience that would be, in some sense, much the
same as what I had experienced in the past.  For me, happiness,
fulfillment, was derived from activities; I enjoyed _doing_ something,
and everything else was either irrelevant or a nuisance.  I expected
the academic environment to be better than any I had experienced, and
thus the nonacademic environment to detract less from my experience
than it had in the past.  When I first applied to Mathcamp, I wrote
that ``I would like to make new friends who love math as much as I
do.''  I wanted to find people like me, with whom I could interact
enjoyably on a purely academic level.  I was looking, I think, for a
universe in which all of the interactions were related to academia.
What I found instead was a strange, new universe, unlike anything I
had ever experienced before.  Never have I been more happy that what I
got was not what I asked for.  For the first time in my life, I wanted
to socialize.  I discovered that interactions unrelated to academics
could be enjoyable, that I wanted to interact for the sake of
interaction.  When I come to Mathcamp, I am immersed in this
environment, this experience, this universe which means more to me
each year I return.  Mathcamp no longer means to me what it did when I
applied; I no longer think of Mathcamp only as five week gathering of
mathematical talent and opportunity.  Last year, I called Mathcamp
utopia, a paradise for those who love math.  This year, I have
realized that ``paradise'' is not quite the right word.  Mathcamp is
my home, where I am happy simply for existing, for living in the
universe that is Mathcamp.  Thank you, everyone, for making Mathcamp
so special.
